tyroid disorders can cause all kinds of
problems from fatigue to fertility even
weight gain medication can only do so
much to help Ali Miller dietician was
naturally nourishes here to explain how
food can actually help support your
thyroid and balance your body good
morning to you good morning I'm glad
you're here to talk about this because a
lot of women have thyroid issues isn't
it mostly it affect women it's higher in
women and it's definitely on the rise
it's higher risk at times of hormonal
fluctuation like perimenopause or after
pregnancy and definitely during times of
emotional stress so that does play a
different part it makes it even worse if
you have stress in your life yes auto
immune related thyroid conditions are
definitely exacerbated by stressful
events okay so we need to try to keep
the stress low but have Julie area
you're having thyroid problems let's
turn to food because we know it is a
natural medicine and you're going to
start over here and just sort of walk us
through some of the foods that we need
to be thinking about adding to the diet
if this is a problem right just like any
gland in the body it requires specific
nutrients to help to fuel its optimal
functionality the first one we think of
as iodine rich foods and iodine
deficiency we saw as a rise in America
that's why we started iodized in our
salts we're now seeing if we're
encouraging sea vegetables that can
actually be a more nutritionally dense
option for us you can use things like I
have kombu here I use this when I'm
soaking my beans we have our ma which is
going to be put into our seaweed salad
today you can also do kelp powder or
dulse flakes which you can incorporate
with your sea salt and sprinkle on your
daily dishes now what are these tastes
like because a lot of people gonna look
at that and say I don't know that I'm
gonna add that it well we're gonna work
a way to really mask it into this dish
with lime and cumin and some bright
flavors so you really won't even taste
it it has a little bit of a gelatinous
texture but that also helps to lower
cholesterol and be anti-inflammatory for
the body so very nutrient dense but when
you incorporate it in the powdered form
in the sea salt
it can really be blended into any savory
dish okay well so iodine helps to
convert the t4 to the active t3 which is
really essential for thyroid function
then we're looking at selenium selenium
is an antioxidant Brazil nuts are the
highest source of selenium and that
helps to work with the thyroid function
we also have minerals so we're looking
at our zinc
our iron and our copper nuts and seeds
ginger maple syrup your gravy maple
syrup Organic
have the most copper in it and then
whole grains that the minerals first off
are going to play a role in activating
also that t3 and the t4 into t3 and so
really helps the functionality we're
looking at whole grains and antioxidants
to reduce the stress on the thyroid
gland and create optimal function so
we're looking at leafy greens the
minerals and our sweet potatoes as an
example and the B vitamins and folic
acid in our avocado and when you're
looking at grains are really stressed
that you look at these superfood grains
or more heirloom grains so I have in
here quinoa or our rolled oats
gluten-free would be an emphasis with
grains because there's a strong
correlation of gluten and thyroid
function let's talk about a salad that
puts a lot of these together yeah yeah I
do and so for the salad here we're gonna
do is start with a vinaigrette so I have
some toasted sesame oil and I have some
cumin and sesame oil has this nice
strong flavors absolutely kind of an
Asian flavor profile some juice of a
fresh lime I also zested the lime skin
and so that's going to give us a nice
kick of vitamin C and then some garlic
that's been chopped up and I'm going to
put in a little bit of honey I showed
you here i drained this RMA so you need
to rehydrate it and the water you'll see
we'll still have a lot of pigment in it
you can use that in your plants to help
to build mineralization and keep your
plants healthy as well good so a little
natural fertilizer absolutely absolutely
a squirt of honey yep just a squirt of
honey and then we're gonna do is we're
gonna mix that together and I'm gonna
start by soaking my arrow main if I had
more time I'd probably let this sit in
here for a good five minutes to take out
that seaweed flavor and really let it
delve into those flavor profiles we just
created then what I'm gonna do is toss
this over my mixed greens and something
so simple as this can help you with your
thyroid function absolutely I believe
and I also showed a product here phone
when I was grocery shopping that kind
bar there it happened to have almost
everything on my table and so you can't
find products that are readily made you
just want to look for a clean label so
that one had the five super grains the
maple syrup and the zinc from the
pumpkin well we are going to put this
recipe at Houston Texas food.com and we
hope that people will go there if they
looking to increase their health and
better their health and we appreciate
this very much boosts your metabolism
and your energy levels absolutely now
I'm going to taste it I'll let you know
later how it goes